Add documentation on how to be a good buddy (#3382)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/how-to-be-a-good-buddy.html.md

---
owner_slack: "#govuk-developers"
title: How to be a good buddy
section: Learning GOV.UK
layout: manual_layout
type: learn
parent: "/manual.html"
---

> When a new joiner starts on govuk, it's good practice to assign them a "buddy" to help them get started on govuk and it's infrastructure and provide initial support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new joiner starts on govuk, it's good practice to assign them a "buddy" to help them get started on GOV.UK, explain its infrastructure and provide initial support.
```

## What is a buddy?

> A buddy acts as a temporary guide for new joiners, helping them understand the govuk programme and generally get started. Some responsibilities of a buddy can include:

Reviewer: This duplicates some of the content above:

```suggestion
A buddy acts as a temporary guide for new joiners. Their responsibilities include:
```

- explaining how our stack works
- pointing the new joiner to useful docs/slack channels/general resources
- being on hand to answer specific questions

> - generally make them feel welcome

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- generally making them feel welcome
```

> Ideally, a buddy will be in the same team and sit within the same function as the new joiner eg: a new frontend developer would have a frontend buddy.

Reviewer 2: Interesting, I was under the impression we looked for on-programme but off-team for frontenders. Guess I was wrong! With many teams only having 1 FE it's hard to tell!

Author: That's a good point. I was under the impression that what I wrote was the ideal but that's also my best guess. I'm open to changing this, do we have prior art/thoughts on this?

Reviewer 2: I'm told backend aim for someone in team, so that's probably worth sticking with.

## How does a buddy differ from a line manager?

Line managers aren't the same as buddies in that they…

- might not always be on the same team or even the same programme
- are focused more on personal stuff like objectives and working patterns

> - have enough to deal with navigating SOP

Reviewer: Whilst I agree with the sentiment, I suggest neutralising to this:

```suggestion
- handle general admin, HR processes and SOP
```

Author: Whoops. I put that in my original presentation as a little joke and completely forgot I'd left it in. Not my most professional piece of content 😅

## Advice on being an effective buddy

> - Make sure that our new joiner documentation is up to date before they start

Reviewer: Link to https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/get-started.html?

(I did think perhaps to https://trello.com/b/yMWYSGlz/govuk-developer-onboarding instead, though this may still be awaiting sign-off from Senior Tech. And in any case, that feels more like a line manager's responsibility)

> - Schedule catchups with them when they start to talk through things like our stack and our tooling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Schedule catchups with them in their first week or two, to talk through things like our stack and our tooling
```

- Check in semi-regularly to make it clear that you're available if they need help with anything
- Let your team know that you're acting as a new joiner's buddy so your capacity might be reduced

> - Consider having a handover discussion after the first month to check how the new joiner found on boarding and feed that feedback into our general onboarding process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Consider having a handover discussion after the first month to check how the new joiner found onboarding, then feed that feedback into our general onboarding process
```

> - Consider maintaining the buddy relationship after they've completed their onboarding to help the new joiner continue learning

Reviewer: This advice feels a bit unofficial to be included in this otherwise official-looking list. I'd consider closing with something like this instead:

```suggestion

There's no official end date for being a buddy. It is up to you and the new joiner to continue checking in for as long as you both feel it's useful.
```

---
owner_slack: "#govuk-developers"
title: How to be a good buddy
section: Learning GOV.UK
layout: manual_layout
type: learn
parent: "/manual.html"
---

> When a new joiner starts on GOV.UK, it's good practice to assign them a "buddy" to help them get started on GOV.UK, explain it's infrastructure and provide initial support.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a new joiner starts on GOV.UK, it's good practice for the team they are joining to assign them a "buddy" to help them get started on GOV.UK, explain it's infrastructure and provide initial support.
```

Just to resolve an ambiguity about who assigns buddy.

## What is a buddy?

> A buddy acts as a temporary guide for new joiners. Their responsibilities include:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A buddy acts as a temporary guide for new joiners. It's an informal role and their responsibilities include:
```

I kind of wanted to get the phrase "informal role" in somewhere and thought this was best place.

- explaining how our stack works
- pointing the new joiner to useful docs/slack channels/general resources
- being on hand to answer specific questions
- generally making them feel welcome

Ideally, a buddy will be in the same team and sit within the same function as the new joiner eg: a new frontend developer would have a frontend buddy.

## How does a buddy differ from a line manager?

Line managers aren't the same as buddies in that they…

- might not always be on the same team or even the same programme
- are focused more on personal stuff like objectives and working patterns

> - handle general admin, HR processes and

Reviewer 4: Should there be something after this "and"?

Author: That should've been "and SOP" but I'm now wondering if it's useful to include SOP in this. I'll amend.
